Although the New Orleans Saints' offense put up a whopping 577 yards in their 49-24 victory over the New York Giants on Monday night, the game's biggest play came courtesy of a very unlikely suspect: backup linebacker Will Herring.

Herring made a terrific interception in the end zone to snuff out the Giants' first drive when the game was scoreless. New York tight end Jake Ballard had a step on Herring, but quarterback Eli Manning didn't have enough steam on his pass, and Herring reached up to snag it.

It was just the sixth interception and 10th takeaway of the season for the Saints' defense, which entered the game ranked last in the NFL in both categories. Later in the game, Saints cornerback Tracy Porter forced a fumble that was recovered by safety Roman Harper. The Saints also forced three other fumbles that were recovered by the Giants.

Herring's play made the biggest impact when momentum was still up for grabs. The Saints' opening drive had ended with a deflating fake field-goal attempt that fell 2 yards short. Then the Giants nearly marched 90 yards for a quick touchdown before Herring got in the way.

It was a huge moment for the fifth-year veteran, who hadn't done much since signing with the Saints as a free agent from Seattle in July. Herring started at strongside linebacker in Week 1 but fell behind Scott Shanle, Jo-Lonn Dunbar and Jonathan Casillas in the pecking order at outside linebacker. Then he missed five games with a hamstring injury.

"You know, that's football, " Herring said of dealing with the injury. "I've been thankful the coaching staff has stuck with me. Joe Vitt has been encouraging, telling me just to keep my head up and keep preparing."

A week after the Saints allowed six sacks at St. Louis last month, guard Carl Nicks said the Saints had given up so many sacks that day that they couldn't afford to give up another one for the rest of the year.

Who knew he was being literal?

For the third straight game, the Saints didn't allow a sack as the offensive line continues to try to erase the haunting memory from that St. Louis game during which they stunk up the joint both with their pass protection and run blocking.

Ever since that game, I've been saying that the Saints will only go as far as their offensive line leads them. They were too inconsistent last season and during the first half of this season, especially considering they have what is considered the best guard tandem in the NFL in Pro Bowlers Nicks and Jahri Evans.

Now it looks like these guys are on a mission. They were terrific Monday night on passing plays against a vaunted Giants defensive line that began the week tied for first in the NFL with 31 sacks. The line was also great on running plays (6.8 yards per carry) and in the screen game, which was highlighted by a classic 24-yard gain by tailback Pierre Thomas in the third quarter.

HOW THE GAME WAS WON

The Saints were spectacular on offense Monday and are on pace for 7,194 yards this season, which would break the NFL record of 7,075 set by the St. Louis Rams in 2000. Quarterback Drew Brees, who threw for 363 yards and four touchdowns, is on pace to shatter Dan Marino's record of 5,084 yards, set in 1984. Brees is on pace for 5,366.

This game was the best evidence to date that NBC analyst and former Indianapolis Colts Coach Tony Dungy was correct when he told me Sunday that the Saints can be Super Bowl contenders because their offense is even better now than it was in 2009, because of the emergence of tight end Jimmy Graham and tailback Darren Sproles.

"I really think they can go a long way, " Dungy said of the 8-3 Saints, who are third in the NFC behind the Green Bay Packers (11-0) and San Francisco 49ers (9-2). "I was a little concerned about their defense early in the year, but I think they're better off now. And that offense has such a quick-strike capability that any game they play, you can't count them out. Everybody's looking at Green Bay and San Francisco, I think because of their records. But New Orleans has the ability to win a game against anybody they play."

The Saints' rushing game was also terrific Monday. They ran for 205 yards on 30 carries, including touchdown runs by Thomas, Mark Ingram and Brees.

By the way, I know that will lead some fans to point out how well the Saints do when they run the ball more. But I can't resist noting that the Saints were still a pass-first team Monday. By the time they jumped to a 35-10 lead in the third quarter, they had thrown the ball 33 times for 359 yards and run the ball 17 times for 102 yards. That's a perfect balance for the way they play offense. They don't need to run the ball more often -- just more efficiently.